# FIGO GUIDELINES  

# FIGO staging for carcinoma of the vulva, cervix, and corpus uteri FIGO Committee on Gynecologic Oncology 1  

Table 1 Cancer of the vulva.   


<html><body><table><tr><td>FIGO Stage</td><td>Description</td></tr><tr><td>一</td><td>Tumor confined to the vulva</td></tr><tr><td>IA</td><td>Lesions≤2 cmin size, confined to the vulva or perineum and with stromal invasion≤1.0 mm, no nodal metastasis</td></tr><tr><td>IB</td><td>Lesions > 2 cm in size or with stromal invasion>1.0 mm, confined to the vulva or perineum, with negative nodes</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Tumorfizwittetehfwfinsati</td></tr><tr><td>II</td><td>Tuf</td></tr><tr><td>IIIA</td><td>(i) With 1 lymph node metastasis (≥5 mm), or (i) With 1-2 lymph node metastasis(es) (<5 mm)</td></tr><tr><td>IIB</td><td>(i) With 2 or more lymph node metastases (≥5 m), or</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>(i) With 3 or more lymph node metastases (<5 mm)</td></tr><tr><td>IIIC</td><td>With positivenodes with extracapsular spread.</td></tr><tr><td>IV</td><td>Tumor invades other regional (upper 2/3 urethra, upper 2/3 vagina), or distant structures</td></tr><tr><td>IVA</td><td>Tumor invades any of the following:</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>(i) upper urethral and/or vaginal mucosa,bladder mucosa, rectal mucosa, or fixed to pelvic bone, or (ii) fixed or ulcerated inguinofemoral lymph nodes</td></tr><tr><td>IVB</td><td>Any distant metastasis including pelvic lymph nodes</td></tr></table></body></html>

a The depth of invasion is defined as the measurement of the tumor from the epithelial–stromal junction of the adjacent most superficial dermal papilla to the deepest point of invasio  

Table 2 Cancer of the cervix uteri.   


<html><body><table><tr><td>Stage</td><td>Description</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>The carcinoma is strictly confined to the cervix (extension to the uterine corpus should be disregarded).</td></tr><tr><td>IA</td><td>asiveld</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>with a maximum depth of 5 mm? and no wider than 7 mm.</td></tr><tr><td>IA1</td><td> Measured invasion of stroma ≤ 3 mm in depth and ≤ 7 mm width.</td></tr><tr><td>IA2</td><td>Measured invasion of stroma > 3 mm and < 5 mm in depth and ≤ 7 mm width.</td></tr><tr><td>IB</td><td>Clinical lesions confined to the cervix, or preclinical lesions greater than stage IA.</td></tr><tr><td>IB1</td><td> Clinical lesions no greater than 4 cm in size.</td></tr><tr><td>IB2</td><td> Clinical lesions > 4 cm in size.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>The carcinoma extendsbeyond theuterus, but has not extendd onto the pelvic wall or tothe lower third of vagina.</td></tr><tr><td>IIA</td><td>Involvement of up to the upper 2/3 of the vagina. No obvious parametrial involvement.</td></tr><tr><td>IIA1</td><td>Clinically visible lesion < 4 cm</td></tr><tr><td>IIA2 IIB</td><td> Clinically visible lesion > 4 cm</td></tr><tr><td>III</td><td>Obvious parametrial involvement but not onto the pelvic sidewall.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Tharil thlwefis</td></tr><tr><td>IIIA IIB</td><td>Involvement of the lower vagina but no extension onto pelvic sidewall.</td></tr><tr><td>IV</td><td>Extension onto the pelvic sidewall, or hydronephrosis/non-functioning kidney.</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>The carcinoma has extended beyond the true pelvis or has clinically involved the mucoa of thebladder and/or rectu.</td></tr><tr><td>IVA IVB</td><td>Spread to adjacent pelvic organs.</td></tr></table></body></html>

a The depth of invasion should not be more than 5 mm taken from the base of the epithelium, either surface of glandular, from which it originates. Vascular space invasion should no alter the staging.  

Table 3 Cancer of the corpus uteri.   


<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2">FIGOStage</td></tr><tr><td>[</td><td>Tumor confined to the corpus uteri</td></tr><tr><td>IAa</td><td>No or less than half myometrial invasion</td></tr><tr><td>IBa</td><td>Invasion equal to or more than half of the myometrium</td></tr><tr><td>I1a</td><td>Tumor invades cervical stroma, but does not extend beyond the uterusb</td></tr><tr><td>Ia</td><td>Local and/or regional spread of the tumor</td></tr><tr><td>IIIAa</td><td>Tumor invades the serosa of the corpus uteri and/or adnexaec</td></tr><tr><td>IIIBa</td><td>Vaginal involvement and/orparametrialinvolvement</td></tr><tr><td>IICa</td><td>Metastases to pelvic and/or para-aortic lymph nodesc</td></tr><tr><td>IIIC1a</td><td>Positive pelvic nodes</td></tr><tr><td>IIIC2a</td><td>Positive para-aortic nodes with or without positive pelvic lymph nodes</td></tr><tr><td>IVa</td><td>Tumor invades bladder and/or bowel mucosa, and/or distant metastases</td></tr><tr><td>IVAa</td><td>Tumorinvasion ofbladder and/orbowel mucosa</td></tr><tr><td>IVBa</td><td>Distant metastasis, including intra-abdominal metastases and/or inguinal nodes)</td></tr></table></body></html>

a Either G1, G2, or G3. b Endocervical glandular involvement only should be considered as Stage I and no longer as Stage II. c Positive cytology has to be reported separately without changing the stage.  